# Formulary Update

Takes invoices, parses them, and updates drug prices along with other medication metadata and spits it out as EHHapp-compatible Markdown, and Pharmacy Team-approved data tables.

## Case Study

The Pharmacy Team receives invoices from the Pharmacy on occasion in the 
form of a spreadsheet. Each row in this spreadsheet corresponds to an order
 placed by a clinician containing information about the drug, dose, item
 number, and price.

In the interest of maintaining a cost-conscious medical practice the
 Pharmacy Team wants to extract any recent changes in drug prices and 
to update the EHHapp Formulary accordingly with up-to-date information.

## Data of Interest

_Invoice Data_

The invoice data is tabular and each row has the following columns of
interest.

```
"Item Number"
"Item Description"
"Commodity Name"
"Requisition Date"
"Price"
```

An `Item Number` serves as a unique identifier for a particular medication 
at a particular dose and price. The name and dose of a medication are 
encoded in the `Item Description`. The type of medication is found in 
`Commodity Name`. The `Requisition Date` and `Price` correspond to when 
the medication was ordered and the its cost at the time respectively.

Since we want to update the formulary with up-to-date information, for each
each unique `Item Number` we want to retain only the invoice row with the 
most recent `Requisition Date`.

Once a collection of all unique most-recent invoice rows is obtained, we 
then invoke the matching algorithm to suggest possible price changes to be
made. Any unmatched invoice rows are presented to the user for manual
 checking.

_Formulary Data_

The formulary data is written using Markdown symbols.

```
"* CATEGORY"
"> ~DRUG1 | COSTpD (DOSE1) | SUBCATEGORY1, SUBCATEGORY2"
"> DRUG2 | COSTpD (DOSE1, DOSE2, ...) | SUBCATEGORY"
```

There are two row types, `CATEGORY` (starting with an asterisk \*) and
 `MEDICATION` rows (starting with a greater than symbol). `CATEGORY`
rows indicate the type of medication. The formulary is laid out such 
that all `MEDICATION` rows following a `CATEGORY` row are of the same type.

Formulary `MEDICATION` rows lack a consistent format, making it difficult 
to consistently and confidently match certain invoice rows with medications, doses, and prices contained in the formulary. Each `MEDICATION` formulary
 row is '|' delimited into the following fields:

```
"blacklistedstatusNAMEotherinfo"
"COST1 (DOSE1, ...), ... COSTn (... DOSEm)"
"SUBCATEGORY1, ... SUBCATEGORYk"
```

where `n` is the number of price points associated with a certain medication
 called `NAME`. Each cost/price may have any number of doses available at
 that price point. Finally, a medication may belong to `k` subcategories.

A single formulary `MEDICATION` row has up to `m` number of `DOSE`/`NAME`/
`COST` objects which may be subject to a price change.

_Detecting a Price Change_

The script should make a reasonable price change when the `COST` found
in a `DOSE`/`NAME`/`COST` object derived from the formulary is different
from the `Price` found in a matching up-to-date invoice row.

_Match Suggestion_

A match should be suggested by comparing medication dosage and name
 information found within the `Item Description` of an invoice row with
dosage and name information found in a `DOSE`/`NAME`/`COST` object derived
 from formulary `MEDICATION` rows.

Some match suggestions should be automatically accepted as a true match 
without human confirmation based on the following strict rules:

Others, dubbed "fuzzy" matches require human confirmation.

If neither "fuzzy" nor rule-based matches are found for a given invoice row
 manual match-making by human inspection and should be supported.

Finally, if no match confirmation is possible, match-not-found status 
should be assigned, and should trigger escalation of the issue to leaders
 responsible for auditing prescribing practices.

_EHHOP Formulary Database_

To fully automate future price updates, any confirmed matches between
 invoice rows and formulary row-derived `DOSE`/`NAME`/`COST` objects should
 be persisted in a flat file database with the following parameters.

```
"UID"
"Item No"
"Item Description"
"Commodity Name"
"Requisition Date - Most Recent"
"Price"
"Formulary Name"
"Formulary Dose"
"Blacklist Status"
```
